hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and this is a video on the huawei mate
book so this is a 12 inch Windows tablet
cost $700 it's got two and one
capabilities it's got a very clean
design let's take a look so when you
open the box you get the mate book
itself 24 watt adapter a double mail
USBC cable and then some components to
adapt to other USB devices this cable
lets you connect to micro USB and then
if you plug this in the adapter you get
a standard USB port so the build quality
is really nice
recent Huawei devices have had excellent
build quality and this one is no
different
aluminum body chamfered edges the
exterior finish feels very similar to an
iPad is that silky smooth texture
the device has a little bit of flex but
it doesn't bother me at all now in terms
of how it feels when you use it this is
a very comfortable tablet to hold it's
got rounded corners rounded edges it's
not too heavy I like handling it now
going around the edges we have a volume
rocker power button stereo speakers up
top a headphone jack mic and the
keyboard connector pins on the bottom
there's only one port on this device is
a USB 3.0 type C connection it's not
Thunderbolt 3 so there's no external GPU
connections you can charge the device
through this port and you can also
connect drives and peripherals there's
an optional mate dock by Huawei that
connects to the port
I think it's $90 this thing has use PC
pass-through so you can charge it while
it's docked and as a couple use bas
Ethernet HDMI out VGA out and it
magnetically fits into a carrying case
if you're using the mate book for work
or for college a dock like this can be
super useful the volume rocker actually
has a fingerprint sensor in the middle
it's fast its accurate and works with
Windows hello to log you into the tablet
pretty quickly
the display is a 12 inch IPS panel and
it's pretty good quad HD so 2560 by 1440
if you turn off the automatic controls
you can get up to 400 nits it's still
not great for viewing outdoors because
of the glossy screen but indoors it's
awesome viewing angles are great and so
is the color gamut when I'm measuring
with the spider for the bezels are also
pretty thin at 10 millimeters and
overall I really like this screen the
speakers on the top edge of the tablet
okay to get loud louder than you would
think for the size that they are but
they don't sound particularly clear I'd
say they sound a little bit worse than
the speakers on the surface Pro for the
webcam up top is five megapixels and
it's actually pretty good
but if you'll notice there's no rear
facing camera on the device and at first
I thought this was pretty cool because
well I'm not a tablet photography person
and it keeps the back really clean by
not having a camera cut out but I use
this for Skype a few times and once I
want to show what I was looking at to
the person I was talking to and I
realized that in order for me to do this
I had to flip the device around use the
front-facing camera and kind of hope
that I was aiming it in the right
direction it's not a big deal and I
won't affect most people but if you are
a frequent video color keep that in mind
there's an optional $60.00 mate pen it's
rechargeable my microUSB kind of wish
they'd made it a type-c connector but it
works well 2048 levels of pressure
sensitivity and it has a laser pointer
if you want to go old-school the
portfolio keyboard costs $130 and it
connects magnetically using pogo pins
the keyboard has backlighting and the
keys have one and a half millimeters of
travel it's a pretty comfortable
keyboard and I think most people will
get used to it quickly I would say that
the keyboard from the surface pro 4 is
better not by lot but I do think it's
better the trackpad is big for this type
of device so if you're coming from a
laptop it's an easy transition it has a
nice texture on the glass surface
tracking around is good but the button
mechanism feels kind of average to me
clicking and dragging sometimes feels
unresponsive but I've been told that a
software update will fix this soon the
cover to the portfolio keyboard has
folding flaps and because the structural
support is dependent on the flaps it's
not sturdy using it on your lap at all
now if you're using it on a table or any
kind of flat surface it's structurally
sound you don't have to worry about it
but if your workflow requires you to use
the mate book on your lap it's not going
to be easy then terms of screen tilt
it's not universally adjustable in fact
there's only two sets of positions one
of them you set up like this it's sturdy
in a flat position the other position is
tilted back a bit more but it uses
magnets to secure it into place and it's
pretty easy to knock down but
fortunately I think the first position
is a good angle for most people the unit
I have is the base model skylake core M
3 HD five-on-five integrated graphics
with only 4 gigs of RAM
it's the same loadout as the base models
of the surface pro 4 and the Samsung Tab
pro s drive speeds are okay but the
performance overall is good if you're
doing light tasks like email web
browsing or typing up documents for work
it's more than enough but you might feel
limited with four gigs of RAM if you
have a lot of browser tabs open gaming
isn't great even the lightest 3d games
run at pretty crappy frame rates but
overall I'm happy with the performance
on the base model thermally it's a
little warm with heavy use but on my m3
version never gets uncomfortable to hold
ok the battery life is less than the
advertised nine hours I was getting
around 5 to 6 hours of light use and
screen at 75% it doesn't have good
battery life especially for a tablet but
it does support quick charging and it
gets you a full charge and around two
and a half hours
alright the huawei mate book it starts
at seven hundred dollars it's a six
point nine millimeter thick tablet
nicely machined aluminum with no camera
on the back it has a 12 inch IPS panel
that's bright with pretty good color
gamut and the bezels are nice and thin
there's two speakers on the top that get
loud but they don't sound amazing
there's a super quick fingerprint
scanner for Windows hello the portfolio
keyboard is backlit has good key travel
and it's a pretty solid typing
experience the glass trackpad is
spacious but the button mechanism isn't
the best the fold up stand only has a
couple positions it's good on a flat
surface but it's not really usable on
the lab on the inside the core m3
processor is sufficient for work and
media consumption but it's not great for
gaming the RAM and storage are not user
replaceable but the base model with four
gigs of RAM is enough for light computer
use and then juicing this tablet is a
battery that lasts around five to six
hours of regular use now there's
obviously things I don't love about the
mate book and for some people these
might be deal-breakers but things like
the portfolio keyboard I wish I had more
till positions for the screen I wish the
portfolio keyboard was a little more
sturdy so that I could use it on my lap
I'd also wish it had a bigger battery or
a longer battery life but aside from
those things I really like this device
it's one of the best Windows experiences
in terms of the the Aeronautics of the
tablet most Windows tablets are
uncomfortable to hold this one just
nails it and if you look at the laptop
experience it's also really good as long
as you don't have to use it on your lap
so if you're a student or you're a
professional that's looking for a tune
one that has a really good tablet
experience as well take a look at the
maid book you might like it that's you
in this video I hope you guys liked it
thumbs if you liked it
subs if you loved it it's been nice I'll
see you guys next time